# Data-Science
Essential skills to become a Data Scientist by 2025 Data Science is a recent but fast emerging field that involves the processing of big data by professionals such as data scientists, data analysts, computer engineers, and statisticians. It is all about extracting and analyzing data that are collected from various sources and transforming them into useful insights to help organizations in smart decision-making. The most important task in the data science process is to develop predictive models used for analyzing big data. There are various technologies involved in the data science process such as SQL, Python, Hadoop, R, SAS, and Tableau. All these technologies are coming under multiple categories like analysis, visualization, distributed architecture, and statistics. Companies are employing innumerable certified professionals to handle data analytics to achieve the business goals through many software applications. Following are the popular terms used in the data science process. Data Mining: It involves exploring and understanding new data that are collected from various sources. Artificial Intelligence: AI is used to create a machine that acts smart and behaves like a human. Machine Learning: ML is the concept and the subset of AI that intends to generate algorithms by the understanding of historical data to improve the machine with experience. Deep Learning: It is the subset of ML that involves the data transformation through multiple numbers of non-linear factors for calculating the output. Challenges to practice data science The adoption of data analytics comes with challenges such as dirty data, lack of data science talent, company politics, lack of clear questions, data inaccessible, unused results, explaining issues, privacy problems, lack of domain expertise, and unaffordable data science team. The learning of data science process helps to overcome the following challenges for the professionals. Problem-identification Accessing right data Data cleansing Data quality Data quantity Multiple data source Data security Result communication Important Data Scientist Skills Data Scientist is the expert who analyzes complex problems to derive modern solutions with necessary skills and trending technologies like AI, 5G, IoT, Robotics, Block-chain, and ML. They can able to operate data for translating them to profitable insights and products that help business growth. Following are the essential skills to become a data scientist in 2025.
